Who Are We?

Taking care of our customers, our communities and each other. That’s the Travelers Promise. By honoring this commitment, we have maintained our reputation as one of the best property casualty insurers in the industry for over 170 years. Join us to discover a culture that is rooted in innovation and thrives on collaboration. Imagine loving what you do and where you do it.

Compensation Overview

The annual base salary range provided for this position is a nationwide market range and represents a broad range of salaries for this role across the country. The actual salary for this position will be determined by a number of factors, including the scope, complexity and location of the role; the skills, education, training, credentials and experience of the candidate; and other conditions of employment. As part of our comprehensive compensation and benefits program, employees are also eligible for performance-based cash incentive awards.

Salary Range

$169,400.00 – $279,600.00

Target Openings

1

What Is the Opportunity?

Travelers Data Scientists are taking the organization to the next level of intelligence by using advanced statistical techniques and machine learning algorithms. As a Sr. Director & Data Scientist, you will lead a team responsible for challenging conventional thinking and use data to communicate insights and tell the story to business and analytics leadership. You will also collaborate with technology partners to drive analytics out to our products in the marketplace, giving Travelers a competitive advantage.

What Will You Do?

Communicate analysis, insights, and results to team, peers, business partners, and on an occasional basis to executive level leaders.
Anticipate potential objections and influence senior leaders to adopt a different point of view.
Lead a team of managers and individual contributors that are executing on multiple projects and activities.
Partner with teams and leaders to ensure the successful execution of data science strategies.
Set and manages expectations with business partners for portfolio of work.
Generate ideas and drives consensus; is aware of potential conflicts.
Make suggestions in the development of business plans for the portfolio.
Broadly and frequently share expertise with the business and/or data science community through discussions, presentations, or peer reviews to improve business outcomes.
Assist with recruiting, training, and talent assessment efforts.
Provide guidance and coaching and drive career/technical development for team members.
Perform other duties as assigned.
What Will Our Ideal Candidate Have?

Master’s in STEM related field or equivalent.
10 or more years of related work experience, including 6 or more years of team leadership experience.
Industry expertise in modeling/ research/ analytics or actuarial required.
Industry level knowledge of value creation and business model concepts.
Regularly interacts with executives and/or major customers using negotiating and/or influencing skills.
Subject matter expertise in the majority of external software programs.
Ability to apply emerging statistical procedures to large highly complex work.
Recognized industry expertise in 2-3 of the following: Regression, Classification, Machine Vision, Natural Language Processing, Deep Learning and Statistical modeling.
What is a Must Have?

Master’s degree in Statistics, Mathematics, Decision Sciences, Actuarial Science or related analytical STEM field plus six years of experience or any suitable and equivalent combination of education and work experience.
Heavy concentration in mathematics, including statistics and programming, business intelligence/analytics, as well as data science tools and research using large data sets.
Additional verification of specific coursework will be required.
What Is in It for You?

Health Insurance: Employees and their eligible family members – including spouses, domestic partners, and children – are eligible for coverage from the first day of employment.
Retirement: Travelers matches your 401(k) contributions dollar-for-dollar up to your first 5% of eligible pay, subject to an annual maximum. If you have student loan debt, you can enroll in the Paying it Forward Savings Program. When you make a payment toward your student loan, Travelers will make an annual contribution into your 401(k) account. You are also eligible for a Pension Plan that is 100% funded by Travelers.
Paid Time Off: Start your career at Travelers with a minimum of 20 days Paid Time Off annually, plus nine paid company Holidays.
Wellness Program: The Travelers wellness program is comprised of tools, discounts and resources that empower you to achieve your wellness goals and caregiving needs. In addition, our mental health program provides access to free professional counseling services, health coaching and other resources to support your daily life needs.
Volunteer Encouragement: We have a deep commitment to the communities we serve and encourage our employees to get involved. Travelers has a Matching Gift and Volunteer Rewards program that enables you to give back to the charity of your choice.
Employment Practices

Travelers is an equal opportunity employer. We value the unique abilities and talents each individual brings to our organization and recognize that we benefit in numerous ways from our differences. 

In accordance with local law, candidates seeking employment in Colorado are not required to disclose dates of attendance at or graduation from educational institutions.

If you are a candidate and have specific questions regarding the physical requirements of this role, please send us an email so we may assist you.

Travelers reserves the right to fill this position at a level above or below the level included in this posting.

To learn more about our comprehensive benefit programs please visit http://careers.travelers.com/life-at-travelers/benefits/.
